Hi, everyone.
In this lecture, we will draw the score and handle game over.
All right, so the score is going to be drawn within the can using the canvas, right?
So what I would like to do is so the score has to be drawn like seven times as sick as well.
Right.
So what we would want to do here as we would want to call that function within the play game and let's
go ahead and let's actually create it.
So on top of the clear screen, I'm going to say function, draw, score and let's copy the comment,
put it on top of the function and change it to draw score.
All right, OK, so draw score.
So for the for the score, we just have simple text for text, we need we need to define the texts color,
the font size and the font family along with whatever, along with whatever it is, the whatever is
the text position.
Right, so the texts, text and the texts position, so we are going to say Conex darte Phil's title
for text color, let's just put it to white context, dot font within here we are going to specify 15
pixels sans serif.
I mean, who doesn't like sans serif?
And we are going to say filled text.
What is going to be the text now within here we have it.
I'm going to provide in template literal and we're going to say score and then the score is whatever
we incremented by.
Right.
So that is going to be the score.
The position is going to be 20 in the X, 20 in the Y.
Let's save that.
That's unexpected.
What is unexpected.
Oh, so this is oh, we should pass on the score here as well, so let's save that.
Let's come here so we can see that it is working there.
But we need to increase the score, right, whenever the snake eats the the snack.
So where is the collision detection for the snack snack solidity within.
Here we are.
Whenever the snake eats one of the snacks, we are going to grab the snake's tail length and increment
it by one.
We are going to grab the score incremented by one.
And while we are here, we are going to grab our speed.
And I'm sorry that I've said that, but we are going to increment the speed by one each time, not zero
point one.
We are going to incremented by one.
We are here.
Right.
So let's save this.
Let's actually test it so you can see that the score is to the length is bigger.
There we go, and the speed is being increased.
Definitely really fast.
All righty.
Perfect.
We don't have any collision detection for the war, which we are going to set up.
Next up, let's go ahead and let's go.
Excuse me, let's handle Gameover as well.
So actually, whenever the game is over, what it is that we want to do, we want the screen to be frozen
at that specific time.
The game is over.
So you can see right here, you know, where you've gone wrong.
You know where the snake hits the border.
You know where the SWAT, the score is the current score.
You know, where the current position of the snake is.
So right at that position, we want to pause everything.
And until the user refresh the page, the user is not going to be able to do anything.
So except for keeping the position, changing the snake position, except for that specific position
that the snake is going to have currently we are not going to do anything.
So I'm just going to say handling game over.
Except for that, we will not be running anything out, so we are just going to return from this.
First off, let's say a result equals game over function.
If it is true, if the result is true, just go ahead and return from this function.
Perfect.
Now, we need to create this game over function as well.
Right.
So why don't we go ahead and actually create it?
OK, so this is going to be game over function within this, we are going to check for collision detection
as well.
So initially, the game is not going to be over.
So first off, let's create the function game over.
Initially, it is not going to be zero, so game over is going to be false.
Right, and then I'm going to check for velocities are zero, it means that the game has not started
yet, right?
And if it is not started, how could it be like how could it be game to game over?
So we are going to say if the X velocity equals zero and the Y velocity equals zero, then return.
False.
Perfect.
That is our first condition.
Now, then after that, we are going to check for.
Check for Wall Collision.
So why do I keep forgetting the spaces?
And keep putting him in the wrong places, so checking for wall collision, I'm just going to four wall
colation.
Perfect.
So we are going to say f the snake's head position is less than zero.
It means that it has hit the left wall.
Right.
We are going to say that game over, game over is true.
Now we are going to do a bunch of lifts.
So let's copy this.
Let's say ALS, ALS, the ALS, if the game sorry, the snake's heads exposition because our title count
equals our tile count, it means that it has had the other position.
Then we are going to say game over is true as well.
Now let's copy this down below.
If the snake's heads y position equals zero, it means that the game is over.
And also if the snake's.
Y y position is equal to the tile count, it has also hit a wall, right?
We are going to say Gameover is true now doing this, all of that.
This is not really good practice.
I'm going to show you a better way.
But first off, we need to check for the.
Snake body collision as well, right after we are done with the game, I'm going to show you another
way that you can basically do this on like two lines of code instead of all this.
All right.
So we are going to first off, let's go ahead and iterate over the snake's body.
So we're going to for let equals zero.
I goes all the way to snake bodies that length and I is incremented by one each time.
Let's grab the part so we're going to sell that part is equal to the snake's bodies, eye each iteration,
and then if the part that X is equal to the snake's heads exposition and part that Y is equal to the
snake's.
Hard to y is equal to the snake's head y position.
What do we want to do?
We want to say game over is true and we want to break from the iteration.
Perfect.
Now, what happens when game over is true, if game over is true, what do we want to do?
We have we have said a lot of game over.
True.
But what if it is true?
We need to handle that situation as well.
Right.
So if Gameover is true, we want to print a text to the screen and the text is going to have a false
title, which is going to be what the text is going to have some text properties.
So we are going to say that font, it is going to be 50 pixels.
Fifty pixels and also the family is sans serif and the text is going to have a position, so it's going
to be that filled text.
What is the text itself?
It is going to be game over like in block letters.
So game over.
And the canvas elements with half of the width is going to be the exposition and the half of the height
is going to be the wife position directly in the center.
Right.
Now, let's go ahead and let's actually do something with this.
So let's save that and let's check what we have done a lot of stuff, let's go ahead and let's check
it.
So it is moving right through the wall.
And why is that shouldn't move right through the wall if snakes if the snakes head position game over
is true, if game over is true.
Have we done Gameover?
True.
Perfectly fine.
We have called the function called the function is there, oh, we need to actually return something,
we need to return something.
So this boolean actually works, this right here, this result.
And we need to return the state of the game over whatever state that is.
Be that true or false?
So now let's try this one more time.
Boom.
It says, game over, but you can see that the height of this game over is almost fine, but the width
is a bit a bit off.
So let's go ahead and fix that.
I'm going to say divided by eight.
Just bring it to the left a little.
There we go, that's fine, so left game over top is not game over.
Why is it coming short?
It shouldn't come short.
So it's elusive snakes.
It is less than I think it is less than one.
It is less than the why the zero.
Then we are going to say like game over.
Perfect.
Let's do right.
Let's do left.
Perfect.
That's the bottom.
So now let's grab the snack increased.
Hit it, game over and perfect, I think we have completed that two things are remaining.
One, that cleaning up the code that I told you that I'm going to show you.
But first, let's elongate the snake so we can head the body.
There we go.
When you had the body, I was going to say game over.
Now, first off, what I would like to do is I would like to clean this code up.
So instead of doing that, we can just say all of that with just one line of code.
So we are going to say if this condition is true or.
This condition is.
So the reason that this works is because we have four walls, only one of them can be true at a time.
No two of them can be two at the same time.
That's why this is going to work and we are going to say if this condition is true.
So let's parsad there and finally, if this condition is.
If any of this is true, any one of these is true, we just want to say that the GAMEOVER is equal to
true.
So you can see that it did rearrange it.
So headache's that this and that, let's go ahead.
It was technically one line of code, but the prettier does its magic anyway.
So in here, let's go ahead and check that.
I think that is better readable than what we had before and that code looks more professional.
There we go.
So the only thing remaining here is for us to actually go ahead and apply the sound effect.
So for applying the sound effects, let's go on top of this.
And in here, I'm going to create a variable and I'm going to say it sneck.
That's instantiate a new audio object, and in here we are just going to grab grab the audio with the
source, which is WHV.
And if you look in here, there is the sound track there.
When do we want this to be played, whenever they the snack collegiately happens, so in here we are
going to call our eat snack and we are going to say that play.
It is increased the volume.
Let's now play for real.
There we go.
Cheetos, like the snake is eating Cheetos.
Very nice, right?
So that's it for this game.
I had my tail, I didn't hit my toe, the snake hit its body.
So that's going to be it for this project.
I'm sure you learned some some new things.
And the most important thing was you learned another way of actually doing that game loop.
That's what the entire ideology behind this game is that how you can leverage the game loop to create
these kind of games like it?
And I hope you have learned something valuable.
And that's it for this lecture and for this chapter.
See you guys in the next one.